Capabilities StatementCoco Cullen-Knox, PhDEnvironmental Sociologist + Knowledge Broker2025
      ABOUT
With a unique blend of environmental and social science
expertise, Coco has over a decade of experience delivering
meaningful outcomes in environmental governance,
stakeholder engagement, and applied research across all
levels of government, industry, NGOs, and academia. She
specialises in designing and implementing robust
stakeholder engagement and review processes to inform

evidence-based advice and support practical, stakeholder-
informed governance and policy decisions.



I'm excited about facilitating meaningful dialogue and decision-making processes across diverse groups to achieve innovative and holistic management of socio-environmental systems.  I believe that to create lasting positive change for people and the environment we need inclusive, transparent, accountable, reflexive and adaptable participatory processes. With a unique blend of environmental and social science expertise, I’m most motivated when tackling complex socio-ecological challenges through collaborative, interdisciplinary research and management approaches.  My goal is to bridge gaps, find common ground, and develop solutions that balance environmental sustainability with social equity and cultural preservation.EXPTERISEQualitative data collection, analysis and reportingStakeholder engagementMarine management, governance and policy adviceScience communication / knowledge brokerProject management and team leadership
      REPORT TITLECONSULTING AND RESEARCH SERVICESSTAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT + CONSULTATIONWith IAP2 certification and a solid understanding of international engagement standards, such as the AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard, I am qualified and well-equipped to design and implement effective stakeholder engagement strategies tailored to specific project needs. * Stakeholder analysis and mapping* Development and implementation of stakeholder engagement plans* Interviews, surveys, workshops, information sessions and knowledge sharing with stakeholders, rights holders and community. * Analysis and evaluation of engagement activities NATURAL RESOURCE GOVERNANCE + POLICY ADVICEI specialise in distilling expert knowledge and diverse data to guide best practices in natural resource governance. My approach ensures that governance strategies are sustainable, transparent, and grounded in a clear understanding of resource management challenges and opportunities, supporting evidence based decision-making.* Comprehensive review of knowledge and information to inform management, governance frameworks and policy advice» Qualitative data collection, analysis and reporting (including surveys, interviews, workshops and literature review)COMMUNICATION + KNOWLEDGE BROKERI specialise in distilling stakeholder knowledge/information and diverse data to guide best practices in natural resource governance. My approach ensures that governance strategies are sustainable, transparent, and grounded in a clear understanding of resource management challenges and opportunities, supporting evidence based decision-making.* Comprehensive review of knowledge and information to inform management, governance frameworks and policy advice
      REPORT TITLEAREAS OF EXPERTISE COMMERCIAL FISHERIES / SEAFOODClient: University of Tasmania Subject: Tasmanian Rock Lobster Fishery Objective(s): Understand fisher perspectives of financial considerations, social interactions and the regulatory and managerial mechanisms of the fishery. Methods: Interviews with commercial fishersOutput(s): Analysis and report on findings to contribute to broader research outputsClient: University of TasmaniaSubject: Tasmanian Rock Lobster FisheryObjective(s): Understand fisher perspectives of financial considerations, social interactions and the regulatory and managerial mechanisms of the fishery. Methods: Interviews with fishers, qualitative data analysis and reporting.Output(s): Summary reports to support evidence based decision-making and boarder research objectivesClient: Tassal (w/ Marine Solutions Tasmania) Subject: Tasmanian Salmon AquacultureObjective(s): Understanding community perception of local developments. Methods: Development of community survey, analysis and reporting on findings. Output(s): Report * Client: Tassal (w/Marine Solutions Tasmania)* Project: Postal Survey of regional residence regarding a fish farm proposal* Activities/Deliverables: Develop, implement and analyse a public survey, be the primary contact for public enquiries, report. Client: Blue Economy CRC  Subject: Seafood Futures Objective(s): Understanding current state of seafood in the context of marine uses in Australia to inform future decision making regarding marine governance Methods: Synthesise sector provided reports and submissions.  Output(s): Reports and fact sheets to support  for variousRECREATIONAL FISHERIESI specialise in distilling expert knowledge and diverse data to guide best practices in natural resource governance. My approach ensures that governance strategies are sustainable, transparent, and grounded in a clear understanding of resource management challenges and opportunities, supporting evidence based decision-making.Services* Comprehensive review of knowledge and information to inform management, governance frameworks and policy advice* Interviews, surveys, workshops and knowledge sharing with expert/key stakeholders and knowledge holders * Literature review* Development and implementation of stakeholder engagement plans* Community engagement* Analysis and evaluation of engagement activities and reporting on findings. Client: Marine and Safety Tasmania (MAST) (w/ Marine Solutions Tasmania)Subject: Feasibility assessment for FADS and artificial reefs in Tasmania Objective(s): Undertake a Feasibility assessment of Fish Aggregation Devices (FADs) and Artificial reefs in Tasmania to meet a state government election commitment to enhance recreational fishing in Tasmania.Methods: Stakeholder analysis and consultation (inc. workshop and interviews with key stakeholders and public consultation sessions and submissions, literature review, policy review and economic analysis.Output(s): Feasibility report and recommendations for locations and approach to installing FADs and Artificial reefs in Tasmanian waters Client: UTAS (Tuna Champions)Subject: Science Education for Game Fishing in Tasmania Tasmanian Rock Lobster Fishery Objective(s): Understand recreational fisher perspectives of financial considerations, social interactions and the regulatory and managerial mechanisms of the fishery. Methods: Interviews with commercial fishersOutput(s): Analysis and report on findings to contribute to broader research outputsINTEGRATED MARINE ESTATE + PROTECTED AREA MANAGEMENTI specialise in distilling stakeholder knowledge/information and diverse data to guide best practices in natural resource governance. My approach ensures that governance strategies are sustainable, transparent, and grounded in a clear understanding of resource management challenges and opportunities, supporting evidence-based decision-making.Project Highlights* A needs-based review providing operational and strategic planning and capacity-building recommendations for agencies with responsibilities under the New South Wales Marine Estate Management Strategy.* CLIMATE CHANGE + CHANGING OCEANSI specialise in distilling expert knowledge and diverse data to guide best practices in natural resource governance. My approach ensures that governance strategies are sustainable, transparent, and grounded in a clear understanding of resource management challenges and opportunities, supporting evidence based decision-making.* Survey design and analysis to support workshops, papers and development of a tool * Interviews, surveys, workshops and knowledge* Client: Centre for Marine Socioecology and the ABC* Project: Curious Climate https://curiousclimate.org.au/* Activities/Deliverables: Analysis of public responses to inform public information sessions and papers. AGRIBUSINESS* Client: Tas Leaders* Project: ThinkBank* Activities/Deliverables: Analysis of participants interviews and literature reviews and reporting to support Tasmanian policy development.*  Our Place in the Sun: Harvesting Tasmania’s Agritourismhttps://www.tasmanianleaders.org.au/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/Ideas-from-Thinkbank-2019-Our-Place-in-the-Sun.pdf What stops us? Small Business: overcoming obstacles and seizing opportunities https://www.tasmanianleaders.org.au/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/Thinkbank-2018-Small-Business_FinalReport.pdfOther examples

Describe Your previous experience in facilitating community engagement in a regional planning
context, and how successful this was in capturing the knowledge and values of community:
Marine and Safety Tasmania (2020)
Managed a feasibility assessment, including the design and implementation of a stakeholder and
community consultation process, to inform the installation of Fish Aggregation Devices (FADs) and
artificial reefs in Tasmania to enhance recreational fishing opportunities in line with a state

EP Regional Landscape Plan review and update 13 Request for Quote
AimWild Consortium
government election commitment. The final feasibility report provided clear recommendations that
reflected the knowledge and values of stakeholders (along with scientific/environmental and
economic considerations). As a result, FADs and artificial reefs were successfully installed in
Tasmanian waters in line with the report’s recommendations, demonstrating the effectiveness of
the engagement process in shaping practical, community-supported outcomes.

Describe Your experience working and building positive, culturally sensitive and safe service
provision and connection to clients, including, but not limited to, those who identify as Aboriginal or
Culturally and Linguistically Diverse:
While managing the science program for the North Network of Commonwealth Marine Parks—many
of which overlap with Sea Country and Indigenous Protected Areas— Coco supported a team that
worked in partnership with Indigenous Ranger groups. This work prioritised two-way and right-way
science approaches, integrating Indigenous knowledge with western science and ensuring
culturally respectful collaboration. Her role included supporting projects that aligned with these
principles and contributing to the delivery of science and engagement activities that respected
Indigenous leadership in Sea Country management. Coco also supported the delivery of the North
Australian Marine Park Advisory Committee meetings, which included Indigenous representation
and played a key role in incorporating Indigenous and key stakeholders’ values and perspectives
into marine park management decisions.Describe Your experience in facilitating regional planning processes, in an environmental or natural
resource management context.:
Department of Primary Industries NSW (March – June 2024) – Co-managed a needs-based
review providing operational and strategic planning and capacity-building
recommendations for agencies with responsibilities under the New South Wales Marine
Estate Management Strategy.
• Parks Australia, North Network of Commonwealth Marine Parks (April 2021 – Nov 2022)
- Deliver the marine science program for the Northern Australian Marine Parks including
project management and development of the North Australian Marine Parks Science Plan.
- Support the delivery of the North Australian Marine Park Advisory Committee meetings
including synthesising, implementing, and reporting on committee feedback.

Provide an outline of your experience in preparing technical documents describing the state of a
region’s natural resources or environment.:
The Nature Conservancy and NRM South (Oct 2024 – March 2025)
Giant Kelp Marine Forest Conservation and Recovery White Paper prepared for DCCEEW,
bringing together specialists to inform the review of conservation advice under the EPBC
Act. This will be followed by a pre workshop survey, workshop and report.
• Parks Australia, North Network of Commonwealth Marine Parks (April 2021 – Nov 2022)
Coordinate the review of the North Foundation Implementation Plan and the development
of the North Consolidation Implementation Plan.
• Marine Solutions Tasmania (2014 – 2024)
Numerous Environmental Impact Assessments in accordance with relevant legislation for
industry and government clients.Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry.